Possessive Nouns
Possessive 's
Nouns
To show that something belongs to somebody or something, we generally add 's to a singular noun and only an apostrophe ' to a plural noun:
•	the girl’s dress (one boy)
•	the girls’ dress (two or more boys)
It is possible to use of with the above examples

•	The dress of the girl
•	The dress of the girls
Proper Nouns (Names)
These are examples of possessive 's with names (proper nouns):
•	This is Leila’s bag.
•	What is Alan’s opinion about the problem ?
The spelling rules
If a name ends in s, we you can either add 's or just add the apostrophe ':
•	This is Chris chair.
•	This is Chris’s chair
Irregular Plurals
For irregular plural forms without s such as men, children, mice, sheep and people add ‘s to show possession:
•	My children's school.
•	People's opinion.
•	The men’s feelings

Forming the possessive

The possessive form is used with nouns referring to people, groups of people, countries, and animals. 
It shows a relationship of belonging between one thing and another. 
To form the possessive, add apostrophe + s to the noun. 
If the noun is plural, or already ends in s, just add an apostrophe after the s.
Examples

    the car of John = John's car
    the room of the girls = the girls' room
    clothes for men = men's clothes
    the boat of the sailors = the sailors' boat

For names ending in s, you can either add an apostrophe + s, or just an apostrophe. 
The first option is more common. When pronouncing a possessive name, we add the sound /z/ to the end of the name.
Examples

    Thomas's book (or Thomas' book)
    James's shop (or James' shop)
    the Smiths's house (or the Smiths' house)

Functions of the possessive

'Belonging to' or 'ownership' is the most common relationship the possessive expresses.
Examples

    John owns a car. = It is John's car.
    America has some gold reserves. = They are America's gold reserves.

The possessive can also express where someone works, studies or spends time
Examples

    John goes to this school. = This is John's school.
    John sleeps in this room. = This is John's room.

The possessive can express a relationship between people.
Examples

    John's mother is running late.
    Mrs Brown's colleague will not be coming to the meeting.

The possessive can express intangible things as well.
Examples

    John's patience is running out.
    The politician's hypocrisy was deeply shocking.

Fixed expressions

There are also some fixed expressions where the possessive form is used.
Examples with time

    a day's work
    a month's pay
    today's newspaper
    in a year's time

Other examples

    For God's sake! (= exclamation of exasperation)
    a stone's throw away (= very near)
    at death's door (= very ill)
    in my mind's eye (= in my imagination)

The possessive is also used to refer to shops, restaurants, 
churches and colleges, using the name or job title of the owner.
Examples

    Shall we go to Luigi's for lunch?
    I've got an appointment at the dentist's at eleven o'clock.
    Is Saint Mary's an all-girls school?
