Talking about likes and dislikes

Expressing likes and dislikes

    To talk about your likes and dislikes, you can use these expressions.
    Expressing likes:

        I like…
        I love...
        I adore…
        I ‘m crazy about…
        I’m mad about…
        I enjoy…
        I’m keen on…

    Expressing dislikes:

        I don’t like…
        I dislike...
        I hate…
        I abhor…
        I can’t bear...
        I can’t stand…
        I detest...
        I loathe...

     Examples of likes and dislikes :

        I'm mad about basketball, but I can’t bear ice hockey.
        I adore reading poetry, but I loathe doing the housework.

    If you neither like nor dislike something:

    "I don't mind doing the housework."

Things to remember about likes and dislikes:

    1. When these expressions are followed by a verb, the latter is put in the -ing form.
    Examples:

        "I like listening to music."
        "I hate wearing sunglasses."
		
I like	VERB+ING
I detest	VERB+ING
I don't mind	VERB+ING



    2. Note that" very much" & " a lot" always come after the things you like.
    Examples:

         "I like basketball very much/a lot. NOT" I like very much/a lot basketball."

    3. Be careful when you use "I don't mind..."
    Examples:

        "Do you mind playing football?"
        "No, I don't mind."(Although it's in a negative form, it means that it's ok for me. I neither love it nor hate it.)

Dialogue:

    Steve is at home. His girlfriend comes in...Notice how they express their likes and dislikes 
	
Steve: 	Hello, darling. Do you fancy watching a film tonight?
Girlfriend: 	Oh, no thanks, I don't really feel like watching a film tonight. How about going out instead.
Steve: 	OK. Do you feel like going to the theater?
Girlfriend: 	Oh, no. I hate it. Do you like eating at the new Chinese restaurant?
Steve: 	I don't mind. The Chinese cuisine is alright.
Girlfriend: 	Well I really love it. Let's go. 


The Present Simple Tense - Talking About Likes and Dislikes

1) We use the present simple tense to talk about things we like and people we like.

Example sentences:

I like pizza.

Shelly likes dogs (she likes dogs).

Tyson likes Madonna (he likes Madonna).

2) We use the present simple tense to talk about activities we enjoy doing.

Example sentences:

I like swimming.

Ceci enjoys listening to music (she enjoys listening to music).

Rakesh likes travelling (he likes travelling).

The table below shows how to form simple sentences to express likes and dislikes, using the present simple tense.

Positive statements (likes)

I     like      chocolate.
You     like    watching football.
Emma    likes   TV soaps.
Marek   enjoys  reading books.
My cat  likes   fish.
We      like    learning English.
They    like    Chinese food.

3) We use the present simple tense to talk about people and things we don't like.

Use don't instead of do not when you speak, and for informal writing.

Example sentences:

I don't like fast food.

I don't like rude people.

Negative statements (dislikes)

I        don’t    like   curry.
You      don’t    like   dancing.
She      doesn't  like   sport.
He       doesn't  like   jazz.
My cat   doesn't  like   getting wet.
We       don’t    like   going out.
They     don’t    like   English food.



Sample Conversations :

1. Do you like basketball?

Yes I do./ No, I don't.

2. What kind of food do you like?

I like Italian food.
Conversation practice:

1. With a partner, practice asking and answering questions 
about sports, activities, or food that you like/don't like.

2. Talk about what your friends like/don't like.

Example: Does Kindra like bowling? No. She doesn't.

What kinds of food does Sam like?

He likes meat and potatoes.*

3. Talk about movies or music that you like.
*Note:

When speaking generally, it's easiest to use plurals with count nouns:

Example:

I like apples. (count - plural)

I don't like radishes. (count -plural)

I don't like soda pop. (non-count)
