Object Pronouns 

What are object pronouns?object pronouns

    An object pronoun, also called objective pronoun, 
	functions as the object of a verb or preposition, 
	as distinguished from a subject or subjective pronoun, which is the subject of a verb.

    Examples:

        He begged her to live with him. (her is the object of the 
		verb begged and him is the object of the preposition with)
        She told them the truth. (them is the object of the verb told)

    Object pronouns are used instead of object nouns, 
	usually because we already know what the object is.

        She's my friend. I really enjoy being with her.
        I like this film. I saw it last week.

Object Pronouns

    Object pronouns in English are the following:

        me, you, him, her, it, us, them

    Object pronouns come after either a verb (e.g "like") or a preposition (e.g "to").

    Examples:

        I like you but you don't like me.
        Do you really hate her?
        She loves sitting next to him.
        She always writes e-mails to us.
        He's talking to her about it.

		
Object Pronoun

An object pronoun is not the subject of the sentence. It is usually the object that is affected in some way by the subject of the sentence. It might be tricky to get a handle on this definition, but you would be surprised to know just how many object pronouns you use in your everyday life.

Defining an Object Pronoun

Let’s break down just what an objective noun is, using an example sentence: 

    Mary ate the ice cream.

Mary is the subject of the sentence. The predicate is “ate the ice cream.” The verb is “ate,” and “the ice cream” is the objective noun. Now, let’s replace “the ice cream” with a pronoun to make an object pronoun: 

    “Mary ate it.”

This sentence functions the same way as the first example sentence – except “it” functions as an object pronoun. Simply put, the pronoun is being affected in some way by the “main noun,” or the subject, of the sentence. It shouldn’t be too much more complicated than that. Got the idea? 
Subject vs. Object Pronoun

However, there is an important thing to note about the above example: it uses the word “it.” This is all fine and well, except that “it” can be a normal subject pronoun as well as an object pronoun. 

Take for example the following two sentences: 

    It is my favorite book.
    I like to read it.

In the first sentence, “it” functions as the subject pronoun. In the second sentence, it functions as an object pronoun. Other pronouns do not work his way.  Look at these sentences to see if you can grasp this concept: 

    She is a wonderful person.
    Emily wants to meet her.

In the first example sentence, “she” is a subject pronoun. In the second example, “her” seems to be talking about the same person, but is a pronoun in a different case. In other words, it is an object pronoun. 
How to Make Object Pronouns

Most people are more familiar with subject pronouns than object pronouns. So, take an subject pronoun, and select the appropriate object pronoun:

    “I” becomes “me,”
    “You” stays as “you”
    “he” becomes “him”
    “she” becomes “her”
    “it” stays as “it”
    “they” becomes “them” 

Here is a sample paragraph that contains lots of subject and object pronouns. See if you can point out the different pronouns and identify correctly if they are subject pronouns or object pronouns! Ask a teacher or parent to check your work and help you correct your work. 

    Mary woke up and wanted to go to the store.
    She walked out the door towards it, when she met them.
    They said that it was good to see her.
    Then she said goodbye to them, and ran into me, and told me all about it!

If you are having trouble memorizing which are which, make some flashcards and practice determining which pronouns are which type, and see if you can rattle off the groups of pronouns from memory.

Some people like to make up a game or song that helps them remember the object pronouns. You might be able to find some of them online, but it can be easier to remember if you make up the song yourself! 
More Information About Object Pronouns

Object pronouns are an incredibly important part of the grammar of our everyday life. It is important to understand which pronouns are which, because it can help you understand the written language better.

It is incredibly easy to learn about object pronouns: just try reading the cover of today’s newspaper, and circling all the object pronouns you can find.

Examples
I like horses. 	Subject Pronoun
Horses don't like me. 	Object Pronoun
	
We talk to our neighbour. 	Subject Pronoun
She talks to us. 	Object Pronoun
	
They listen to the teacher. 	Subject Pronoun
Listen to me carefully. 	Object Pronoun
	
You speak very quickly. 	Subject Pronoun
We watch them on TV. 	Object Pronoun