Possessive Pronouns 

Definition

    A possessive pronoun is a part of speech that attributes ownership to someone or something. Like any other pronoun, it substitutes a noun phrase and can prevent its repetition. For example, in the phrase, "These glasses are mine, not yours", the words "mine" and "yours" are possessive pronouns and stand for "my glasses" and "your glasses," respectively.

Examples

    Sweet House
    This is our house. It's ours.
    This is my bedroom. It's mine.
    This is my brother's bike. It's his.
	
Subject Pronouns 	I 	you 	he 	she 	it 	we 	you 	they
Possessive 	Adjectives 	my 	your 	his 	her 	its 	our 	your 	their
Possessive Pronouns 	mine 	yours 	his 	hers 	its 	ours 	yours 	theirs

Subject Pronouns 	I 	you 	he 	she 	it 	we 	you 	they
Possessive 	Adjectives 	my 	your 	his 	her 	its 	our 	your 	their
Possessive Pronouns 	mine 	yours 	his 	hers 	its 	ours 	yours 	theirs

Subject Pronouns 	I 	you 	he 	she 	it 	we 	you 	they
Possessive 	Adjectives 	my 	your 	his 	her 	its 	our 	your 	their
Possessive Pronouns 	mine 	yours 	his 	hers 	its 	ours 	yours 	theirs

Subject Pronouns 	I 	you 	he 	she 	it 	we 	you 	they
Possessive 	Adjectives 	my 	your 	his 	her 	its 	our 	your 	their
Possessive Pronouns 	mine 	yours 	his 	hers 	its 	ours 	yours 	theirs

    The words "mine, yours, his, hers, its , ours, theirs" are possessive pronouns. They show who or what something belongs to.

Note

    1. A possessive pronoun differs from a possessive adjective.

    Examples:

        What color is your brother's jacket?
        His jacket is black.
        (your and his are possessive adjectives; your and his modify the noun jacket in both examples)
        What color is yours?
        Mine is blue.
        (yours and mine are possessive pronouns - yours functions as a subject complement in the first example; mine functions as a subject in the second example)

    2. "It's" is not a possessive pronoun or adjective; it is a contraction of it is or it has.

    Example:

        It's not my book = it is not my book
        It's got five bedrooms = it has got five bedrooms

Possessive Pronouns: Used in Sentences

Possessive pronouns include my, mine, our, ours, its, his, her, hers, their, theirs, your, yours, whose, and one's - all words that demonstrate ownership.

Here are some examples of possessive pronouns used in sentences:

    I saw her book on your table.
    His hair is longer than hers.
    My dog is better than their dog.
    The kids are yours, mine, and ours.
    Whose book is on our desk?
    One’s treasure is special.
    The house is theirs and its paint is flaking.
    Is his car really that fast?
    The money was really theirs for the taking.
    We shall finally have what is rightfully ours.
    Their mother gets along well with yours.
    I never did find out whose phone number that was.
    What's mine is yours, my friend.
    Never underestimate one's value to his family.
    Her timing couldn't have been less appropriate.
    The dog is mine.
    The cat is yours.
    My house is small.
    Our house is big.
    Its color is red.
    The ring is hers.
    The bag is theirs.

	
	Examples:

    I didn't have my umbrella so Marta lent me hers.
    (I didn't have my umbrella so Marta lent me her umbrella).
    Her car is faster than mine.
    (Her car is faster than my car).
    That food is ours and not theirs.
    (That food is our food and not their food).
    I know this drink is yours but I need to drink something.
    (I know this drink is your drink but I need to drink something).
