Possessive Pronoun Worksheets

If you need possessive pronoun worksheets, here are two for you to use. 
On the first worksheet, the students will identify possessive pronouns. 
On the second of the possessive pronoun worksheets, 
the students will practice using all the possessive pronouns.

Possessive Pronoun Worksheets
Worksheet #1

A. Directions: A pronoun is possessive when it shows ownership. 
Underline all the possessive pronouns in the following sentences. There are 15 in all.

    I took my dog to a dog show.
    His hair was longer than hers.
    I saw that her dog was smaller than their dog.
    Someone asked, “Is that dog yours?”
    I replied, “Yes, he’s mine.”
    I wonder whose dog is the smallest?”
    My dog won a first place ribbon.
    His ribbon was big and its color was blue.
    My parents and I were proud of our dog.
    Everybody thinks that one’s dog is special.
    I’m sure your dog is special, too.

B. Directions: Fill in the blank with the proper possessive pronoun:

    mine, ours, his, hers, yours, its, theirs

    I paid for my scarf, so it is _____.
    Pick any of these desserts. The choice is _____.
    The math book belongs to Ralph. It is _____.
    All my brothers love video games. Playing them is a favorite pastime of _____.
    We bought this game together, so it is _____.

Answers:

A.

    I took my dog to a dog show.
    His hair was longer than hers.
    I saw that her dog was smaller than their dog.
    Someone asked, “Is that dog yours?”
    I replied, “Yes, he’s mine.”
    I wonder whose dog is the smallest?”
    My dog won a first place ribbon.
    His ribbon was big and its color was blue.
    My parents and I were proud of our dog.
    Everybody thinks that one’s dog is special.
    I’m sure your dog is special, too.

B.

    mine
    yours
    his
    theirs
    ours  

Worksheet #2

The second of the possessive pronoun worksheets is 
geared for more advanced students. It will include practice on using:

    your, yours, you’re, its, it’s, whose, who's, their, theirs, there's.

A. Directions: Underline the correct possessive pronoun or contraction.

    (Who, Whose, Who’s) going to fix this horrible mess?
    During (their, theirs, there's) party, Sam and Janet danced the tango.
    Do you know (who, whose, who’s) candy this is?
    If (your, yours, you’re) not careful, the ink will spill.
    Is that rude child (your, yours, you’re)?
    Give me (your, yours, you’re) attention.
    (Its, It’s) plain to see why she likes him.
    (Their, Theirs, There's) really no reason to go outside now.
    That is a nice statue; I like (its, it’s) pose.
    Some cousins of (their, theirs, there's) are coming to visit.

B. Introduction: Don’t let possessive pronouns and 
gerunds confuse you. Look at these two sentences: 

    She can’t take him complaining all the time.
    She can’t take his complaining all the time.

In the first sentence, what can’t she take, “him” or “complaining”? 
The second sentence uses a possessive pronoun so you know that it is the “complaining” that she can’t take.

Another confusing possessive pronoun is “one’s.” 
This is the only possessive pronoun that has an apostrophe.

Directions: Underline the correct word in each sentence.

    My son did his homework without (me, my) asking him.
    It is good manners to ask (ones, one’s) permission.
    (Your, You) winning the game was great.
    I loved (they, their) singing.
    Those jokes are the really funny (ones, one’s).

Answers: 

A. 1. Who’s, 2. their, 3. whose, 4. you’re, 5. yours, 6. your, 7. It’s, 8. There’s, 9. its, 10. theirs

B. 1. my, 2. one’s, 3. Your, 4. their, 5. ones